# Capstone_Experimental_Design_Testing
Experimental A/B testing and Exploratory Data Analysis on Power Utility Operation Data

The dataset in thsi project is from the power utility data collection website https://www.eia.gov/electricity/data/eia861/. I specifically use the annual summary operational data for year 2012 and 2018 of power utilities across United States.

I propose the following hypothesis testing based on the data:

1) To test the hypothesis of significant difference in a) Revenue per Retail Sale Unit, b) Transmission Losses and c) Total Sources (Mega Watt Hour electricity) between year 2012 and 2018

2) To test the hypothesis of significant difference (alternative) in Summer Peak Load and Winter Peak Load distribution experienced by various entities during the 2018 year.

## Methodology

For test 1, I derive two separate attributes from the columns of 2012 and 2018 year Operational data. I calculate the Revenue per Retail sale unit (RPRS) by using the columns, Revenue generated "From Retail Sales" and disposition of "Retail Sales". In similar fashion, I calculate the "Total Energy Lossess" per "Total Disposition" registered by each entity. I plan to first check for normality in distribution using histograms, visualization plots, statistical information (mean, median, skewness, kurtosis) and shapiro wilk testing if needed. Based on this, I plan to use either statistical TTest for normal distribution or Kruskal Willis Test for non-parametric distbutions

For test 2, I plan to do a similar analysis on the summer peak and winter peak information from 2018 year Operation data table. As can been seen the distribution of the summer peak load seems to indicate a non-normal distribution. I plan to use the Wilcoxon signed-rank test as both the summer and winter peakload are record by the same entity.

## Relevance

From test1, I want to analyze any trend in the reduction (or increase) in revenues generated by power utility (per unit basis) in six years counting from 2012. I'm also interesting in knowing the trend of total energy losses. This is useful in further exploring the reasons for existence of such trends like new technology adaptation, newly or upgraded energy sources, or improvements in power transmissions.

From test2, I want to investigate if there is any seasonal variation observed in the peak load demand across US as this information could support the yearly management of energy distribution systems.
